30/8/26

why am I not using a workdoc. This is a workdoc now.

farkle mobile, the game I'm working on currently, is a simple 3D farkle game. Just want basic functions for now.

I've started a heap of unreal projects before this one in the last month. (the 'unreal projects' folder was created 3 Augest 2026, so my first initial install was this month. I'm pleased w/ that really.) Most of them did literally nothing, I was just poking at it to see what it did and starting over whenever it was broken or I wanted to test something else.


current things to remember to do:


set a timer of some kind after the dice are released, if not settled by timer end, make settle.

when the dice are settled, change camera from character-focused to dice-and-ui-elements focused (the 'reroll area' view I thought about last night).

after the roll, send to a score manager (deals with the actual farkle game logic for points etc. I basically need a guy that runs the actual farkle game part.) to do the same farkle logic as the earlier games.



Have been stuck on 'changing cameras' for most of the day. This mron

5:37pm finally got it to swap cameras. Now once all the dice are sleeping, the camera swaps (with blend) to dicecam.

-----------------

tomorrow:

clcking on dice should do something. - fixed
set up the board with the planned indents. - done
^  
updated at 31-8-26 / 2:30am.

----
continuing from above:
clicking on dice should be a toggle, not always-on.

make a new UI panel for 'keep' to appear on-screen when (for now, any) dice is clicked (to move to the left side).
** make sure the transparent areas of the UI panel are 'not clickable', so the dice can be clicked behind the button layout. ** (have made this mistake twice now.)

OH - the dice should 'sink' when they're 'used', with some convenient shadow or something to make them less distinct. Something auteurish lmao but I know what I mean. ## this is purely aesthetic and can wait til much later, just wanted to write it down.

11.49pm:

current issue: oh, this should be GitHub issues.
dice are not placed at the correct location. An issue of the physics movement + actor movement, but -- oooh. I'm not using centre of mass, am I...

add 1/2 dice height to seat pos.


9.36am
Been at it for abt an hour. 
Couldn't sleep last night. Googled it. For the physics location to work properly the mesh needs to be root, so I've done that. It did massively improve the locations, but now I can't rotate the dice without them being rotated from 0,0,0 despite that not being their location. Working on it now.

I need to figure out what's dropping the dice from that height, because I honestly can't remember. Really should write it down...

10.13 just realised the issue. Origin is really far away. I don't know when, don't know how. 

Oh. Probably when I made it root, it absorbed root's transform? Maybe? Idk. Will fix and test this anyway.

11.45am
have fixed it. Now it rotates properly and lands properly. Will commit, then go back to the 'snap to location' plan from yesterday.
idea: generate and move die along a curve from current.pos to target.pos instead of teleporting or sliding.


Apply velocity to dice on roll start.
fix the dice funnel: currently doesn't work at all so deleted, will come back to it.

Right, dice seating. That was meant to be what I was doing.
shit, didn't eat yet. It'll be cold. Will try to have some now.


Die seating works ish, just need to stop it rotating too hard.

6.54pm: dice now sit pretty much in the right spot, close enough for now. But, it draws a new dilemma: I need the numbers right-way-up in the display area.  when they roll I don't mind. 
so I need a top and bottom of each face. I guess maybe I just make sure Z is always +? Will test.
